---
layout: post
title: "A Different Taste on Happiness"
date: 2015-4-27
---

Pursuing happiness these days seems axiomatic. It is often related to the ultimate purpose of life, higest treasure for mankind. Although happiness plays an important role in everyday life, it is doubtful if it should be placed at such a high position in our culture. More importantly, focusing so dedicately on happiness sometimes blur our taste of the quality of the happiness. While some happiness is of low level, easy to catch and also transient, some happiness is more covert, very hard and time-consuming to get but is long lasting. When we focus on "being happy", we often seek for the low level happiness which is quite easy to obtain. Going out for a meal, hanging with friends or playing some computer games -- all of those activities comes with very low cost and can be done within one day. Compared with these easy entertainments, higher level of happiness seems painstaking and can hardly be viewed as a "profitable" investment. People need to prepare for years before they could do meaningful work in science; musicians suffers from hundruds of thousands of hours before they could finally give be able to perform before audience. According to the pervasive view about happiness, they seems to endure too much pain before they have the seemingly so vague achievement. "How ", argued by the public, "could they compensate their long time boredness by so little happiness they eventually get?"

They are right in a sense, according to my own experience, that <em> pursuing high happiness comes with high risks</em> because the outcome is extremely uncertain. You devoted a lot into math practice, you might end up finding that you are not suitable for a math career at all. Having interest does not mean that you can master it, and only time could tell if you are really gifted in some subject. Nobody would like to pay so heavily on something just to prove that they are not capable of doing it. However, if you are lucky enough to finally achieve something and enjoy a different kind of happiness, you will have a different view probably. You will feel it is worth the pain, the struggle and the risk you have endure. Those peak experience makes you define yourself as a powerful human, which gives you the value that nothing else could replace. I do not mean the everyday happiness is not important, they are very important to keep us living in a good condition. Yet necessity does not mean we should satisfied with it. What I believe is to pursue the ultimate happiness of high level. Taking the risk that you may fail seems stupid, but as long as you keep trying and keeping using your critical thinking skills, you could be nearer and nearer and I think you could finally have a taste of what true happiness is like.